---
layout: content
title: Projects from 2018
permalink: /projects/2018/
---

### Radboud Sustainability Dasboard

#### Introduction

RSD is a web-based administrative tool for the Facility Service of the Radboud University and Radboud UMC. The aim is to support the Facility Service in complying with the Dutch law in respect to renewable energy, toxic chemicals, heating installations and so on.

#### Framework

As this application is mainly a database with a user friendly front-end, we use the Python framework Django, as this framework is ideal for defining database models. On top of that, there is an admin area built-in based on the defined information models. This makes it so that the user can later change every detail in the database, even if these attributes can't be changed via the 'real' front-end.

#### Use

The application will be used by employees of the Facility Service of the RU/UMC. The aim is to extend the application such that there is an option for guest users that have restricted access. These are mostly contractors outside the RU.

### SocialBrands-2018

Social Brands is a solution for companies and teams to get in touch with their target audience. Social Brands offers their clients a platform to build social promotions, to engage, reach and increase their online & offline audiences and turn them into leads. Clients of Social Brands collect data like e-mail address, place of residence, date of birth, and a lot of other valuable data such as their Facebook likes. This data can be used as a marketing instrument to engage in other marketing strategies, such as a newsletter or a targeted Facebook ad. Social Brands offers various apps and campagnes that companies can use for interaction with their target audience.

In the Social Brands project at GiPHouse, we will be developing an API that can provide a suggestion for an app for companies to use. This will be of use when companies don't know which app they should select. This could be provided for them when they ask for it or could be used by Social Brands in the form of a push message when a client has been inactive for a while.
Added features to this API will be the possibility to request insight in the current target audience of a client and also suitable times, dates and content for future posts.

### Zoof-It

Zoof-it is a software house which focuses on the accounting of parcel delivery in the last mile. Zoof-it wants to record the responsibility and liabitlity for a parcel in the blockchain. The project is about making an app tob e used by couriers and holders of the parcels. Parts of that app are e.g. a wallet, interaction with a public database (blockchain) and interaction with a central database (such as personal data). The wallet represents liability, responsibility and (total) income of the courier. The attributes of this project are as followed: The wallet is open source, interacts with a blockchain and has many security aspects.

### G2GE

Most of the coding projects are being done in formal languages (e.g. C, Java, Python). These formal languages have the benefit of being really effective in use, but have the downside of having a steep learning curve for beginning programmers. This steep learning curve is an issue which might be partially sidestepped by making use of a Domain Specific Language (DSL). DSL’s can be described as: “Small languages, focused on a particular aspect of a software system. Designed to express statements in a particular problem space, or domain”.

Domain specific languages have the benefits of being more descriptive in the code itself; this allows for a  better understanding, at least for beginning programmers, of ongoing operations in a domain. Making use of DSLs, unfortunately, also has its downsides. As the name suggests, the language can only be used in specific domains, which means for larger projects a lot of different DSL’s need to be used. Lastly, the usage of a DSL does not automatically solve the big problem of having a steep learning curve for beginning programmers, they still need to learn how to program, which stays a daunting effort.

This is where graphical editors, like Scratch, come in; they remove the large amount of ‘complex’ text for beginning programmers. In addition, it also provides for a better overview of the code structure. Using a graphical editor also means a way of ‘interactively’ learning to code. Unfortunately, it is less efficient to use for experienced programmers. Moreover it is also difficult and time consuming to build a proper usable graphical editor since they are build towards only one programming language, thus, creating a big problem when being combined with DSL languages on a larger scale.

With G2GE we are building an easy and pleasing to use Graphical Editor for any DSL given the grammar of this DSL. Effectively trying to solve the above mentioned problems.

### Optimal Planet
Optimal SCANS (Sustainability & Circularity Analysis & Normation System) by Optimal Planet helps determining and monitoring the sustainability and circularity of an organisation, it services and the circularity and sustainability of the products a company delivers or purchases. GiPhouse developed this system in 2015 as a web application in Laravel (PHP and JQUERY). In 2016 and 2017 this system was developed further. More explanation (in Dutch) can be found here: http://www.optimalplanet.nl/

### Dalibre

The Dalibre project is a personal wallet for your data. It lets the user retrieve and save data in their own personal wallet such that the user can share his data and his reputation. The dalibre app contains a backend, a frontend and a list of datasources (third party platforms). The backend has the logic of retrieving, sharing and storing the data. The frontend is a mobile cross platform (Android, iOS) user interface where the user can log in to a third party platform to connect his data or share his data and reputation.

### Fun My Day
Fun My Day is a mobile app that serves as a trip planner and travel guide for anyone who is exploring a new place. It suggests the best destinations, shows the best possible way to spend time in town, gives user-friendly interface to add reservations, and a great way to plan out every nuance of trip.

#### New Features

The development team is currently tasked with maintaining the current version and build new features for next release, such as:
* Show weather forecasts for the destinations.
* Manage the reservations and notifications of many activities.
* Make the routing part more reliable, intuitive and easy to use.

### Remote School Project Papua

Remote School Project Papua is a project that supports education on West Papua, an island in eastern Indonesia with their own local language, Lani. The aim of the project is to support the local school with a android application that can be used on a tablet in the education. Through the app in combination with lessons, they are learning Indonesian and enabling them to attend higher level of education. The teaching material and the application is based on TPR = Total Physical Response method. This means that the children will interact with the application though simple games with words, pictures and audios mixed with playful encouragement. The application will be installed on several tablets that will be transported to West Papua in July 2018.

### Welding Fume Assistant WebApp

In many industries metal work and welding is applied in various production processes. During these activities exposure to hazardous welding fumes may occur, which may result in health loss. For example after exposure to toxic metals such as chromium-6, as has been reported by national media over the past year (2017). The goal of this project is to develop a web-based application for companies to estimate health risks as a result of exposure to welding fumes. Advice on control measures and their estimated effect is also part of the scope.
